# DataAnalysisBootcamp Self Assessment
The topic for the final project was determining if Machine Learning could predict the types of crimes that would occur based on the moon phases. The analysis was conducted on data located for Gainesville, FL for the years 2018 - 2021. My role in the project was the database role. I located and cleaned the data. After the data was cleaned I loaded it into a PgAdmin database and created an ERD to document the three tables that were created. As with the course in general, the biggest challenge I faced was time. Working a full time job and dedicating most non-working hours to this course has been beyond challenging. During the course of the project I felt the time pressure to provide the data my team would need in order for the project to progress. The way I overcame the constraints of time was to ensure that the available time was used as efficiently as possible by staying focused by avoiding getting sidetracked looking at additional data sources or different ways to accomplish a task. I went with what I know. 
I worked with a great team. We planned out the times that we were available and met during class and each Saturday morning via Zoom. The team worked well together and collaborated on all aspects of the project to ensure each step was completed on time. To new cohorts, I would say PLAN, PLAN, PLAN. Don’t wait till the end. Make sure you know when each task will be completed and who will take ownership of the task. This will relieve a lot of the stress by knowing that all tasks will get completed within the appropriate timeframe. Also, on presentation day, be the first to present. Being first allows you to be relieved of the stress and enjoy the presentations that follow. 

Our final project group addressed crime types based on moon phases. The machine learning aspect was to determine if crime can be predicted based on moon phases. Specifically the full moon phase. A Random Forest Classifier model was created for the project. Our group determined that crime types could not be predicted based on the moon phases. Further analysis and visualizations supported the conclusion. 

